a teenager wakes up
inside an underground elevator with no
memory of his identity
a group of male youths greet him in a
large grassy area called
the glade enclosed by tall stone walls
the boys also known as gladers formed a
rudimentary society with each assuming
specialized tasks
their leader alvey says that every boy
eventually recalls his name
but not his past the boy learns that a
vast maze surrounding them may be the
only way out
during the day designated runners search
the maze for an escape route
returning before nightfall when the
entrance closes
while in a competition with another boy
named galli the boy suddenly remembers
his name
thomas the next day he is attacked by
ben
a runner who has been stung by a griever
deadly techno-organic creatures that
roam the maze at night
ben is forced into the maze and left to
die as there is no cure for his injury
albie and minnow the lead runner later
retrace ben steps inside the maze
minnow reappears at dusk dragging alby
who is stung but they are unable to
reach the closing entrance in time
thomas runs into the maze to help
leaving all three trapped
thomas lures a griever into a closing
passageway causing it to be crushed
the trio managed to survive the night
returning the next morning
the first ever girl arrives in the
elevator she recognizes thomas
though he cannot remember her thomas
minnow
and others enter the maze locate the
griever corpse
and remove a beeping mechanical device
from inside it
galley claims thomas has jeopardized the
fragile peace between the youths and the
grievers and wants and punished
but newt the group second in command
instead
designates thomas as a runner minnow
shows thomas a hand-constructed model of
the maze based on previous expiration
the maze's numbered sections open and
close in a regular sequence
thomas realizes that the device
corresponds to a section within the maze
theresa has two syringes filled with an
unknown substance
one is used on aldi and he recovers from
the grievous sting
minnow and thomas venture back into the
maze with the device and discover a
possible exit
that night may's entrance does not close
while others open
letting grievers pour in a massacre
ensues as the gladers struggle to fight
back or hide
alby zart and several others are killed
afterwards
galley punches thomas and blames him for
everything that happened
thomas who has had disconnected memory
flashes since arriving
stabs himself with a severed grievous
stinger in an attempt to revive his
memory
the others inject him with the last
anti-venom unconscious
he recalls that he and teresa worked for
the organization that created the maze
wckd the boys unknowingly have been test
subjects for an experiment
thomas awakens and shares this
information with newt
minnow chuck and teresa thomas then
exposes himself and teresa
confessing that they worked with wckd
and studied the boys for years
meanwhile gali has taken command and
intends to sacrifice thomas and teresa
to the grievers to restore the peace
several gladers form a group and free
them they approach the maze in an
attempt to find and escape
while gally and a few others refuse to
leave fighting grievers as they go
several teens are killed the survivors
eventually enter a laboratory strong
with corpses
in a video recording a woman named ava
page explains that the planet has been
devastated by a massive solar flare
followed by a pandemic of a deadly virus
called the flare
the teens learned that they were part of
an experiment studying for a cure
paige is seen shooting herself on the
screen as the lab is attacked by armed
men
galley suddenly appears with a gun
having been stung by a griever
he insists they must stay in the maze
and aims at thomas but is pierced
through the chest by mino's spear
chuck is fatally shot as galley's gun
discharges
masked armed men then rush in and take
the rest of the group to a helicopter
it flies over a vast desert wasteland
and approaches a ruined city
the scene ends with the supposedly dead
scientist meeting in a room
paige notes that the experiment is
successful the survivors are now
entering phase two
you